hey it's me Destin welcome back to
smarter every day this is my buddy bin
and he got a new toy so we're gonna try
to shoot with this just because we want
to try it show what it does do I have to
stand right here yes okay here we go
all right so today on smarter every day
I'm going to tell you how I determined
my cologne and my man smell and the way
I did it was using the scientific method
but the reason I did it is pretty
interesting you know that smell is
linked to memory so I used to squirrel
hunt here and it smells like childhood
to me it's pretty interesting you
probably have things like that in your
life like honeysuckles might remind you
of your grandmother or something like
that so today on smarter every day I'm
going to show you how I selected that
Cologne because after all I want it to
be really desirable for my wife right
okay here we go hypothesis if people
like different smells I should be able
to test scientifically determined that
optimum smell for my wife which I can
then wear consistently and hopefully
trigger memories about me when I'm not
around but first we've got to figure out
how to set up this experiment I searched
the internet trying to find out which
colognes women seem to prefer most a
Google to popular brands but realize
quickly that this was influenced by
marketing so instead I went to two X to
try to get opinions of women talking to
other women about their men this gave me
some good preliminary data but then I
went to the smartereveryday Facebook
page and asked everyone on there which
colognes they preferred this is where I
started to see some clear frontrunners
which made me wonder if I really wanted
to smell like every other man in the
world there were over 300 unique
responses submitted by 800 different
comments clearly I can't afford a bottle
of each of these colognes if you've ever
looked at how much these things cost you
know that this experiment is about to
get expensive I was surprised to find
that there are websites that buy huge
bottles of name-brand cologne and divide
them up into smaller samples but 200
colognes is still way too many to try so
I asked my friend Wil Leahy to compile
all this survey data up together into
one chart clearly women respond well to
the smells on the left side of this
chart so keeping that in mind obviously
I want to get a larger sample of the
fragrances on that side however I
realized that this could also mean that
these brands are simply marketed more
effectively so to keep things fair
I chose several columns that weren't as
popular once I cut away the less
interest
candidates and aired it down to a
manageable size that I felt like I could
test over a six-month period and here
they are there's a broad spectrum
represented here they're super expensive
stuff cheap stuff popular stuff and
stuff that's less known at this point I
would have been willing to bet that she
was going to go for something that is on
the left side that's more popular with
other ladies okay when the bottles
showed up I found myself being biased by
the names on the bottles for example
there's own called Explorer I want to be
an explorer so I wanted that one to win
obviously I had to blind myself to the
marketing and assign each vial a number
which I could then cross-reference at
the end of the experiment with that out
of the way it came down to brute force
science over the course of three months
I applied colognes randomly and
documented her reactions to each I
didn't want her to expect a cent at a
certain time of day so often I would not
apply anything and just make sure that
she wasn't getting confused or maybe
even starting to give me lazy data after
four months of doing this I narrowed it
down to two fragrances one for casual
Destin and one for fancy Destin which
means it's time to start conditioning
her for memory triggers so in
mid-october I traveled to Peru but
before I even made it to my connecting
gate in Atlanta I got this text message
followed up by this FaceTime call yep so
is this the scent earlier today she was
preparing the kid schoolwork and I
decided to test it on her to let her
eyes tell the story all right the moment
of truth I'm not going to show you what
kind of Colin I have I'm going to apply
it there we go let you smell it mm-hmm
nice this is the nicest it's the nicest
do you like it I like it I'm not going
to tell you what the smell is because
it's unique to us right right okay so I
will tell you that out of everything
that we tried it wasn't one of the most
popular ones but it was on the suggested
list all right so when I was in Peru I
snuck in her bedroom and sprayed the
smell that took me several months to
arrive at on my pillowcase and what
happened it reminded me of you when I
was in a different continent in the
jungle so that was the point to try to
create memories the
that would be established long after I
was gone so now I'm gonna take this
smell to the safety deposit box and
spray it on our will it gets end up just
kidding I guess now I will show people
how I shave is that okay yes okay I can
Shepherd wear clothes what you should do
Oh a shaving shower yeah
all right this episode of smarter every
day was sponsored by Harry's duck there
clearly a superior product I used to
shave which is little disposable stuff
like this but this is the same price of
this and it's way better
anyway if you'd like this for smarter
every day go to harrys.com and then use
the promo code smarter and you can get a
discount on razors they're actually a
really good product it's really weighty
and the packaging is really cool I like
it so it reduced it is a better shaving
experience these blades are made in
Germany there's five of them so you go
to harrys.com use the promo code smarter
and I'm confident you will be happy
because I was actually an Aries customer
before they offered to sponsor smarter
every day
anyway that's it promo code smarter get
yourself a discount they make really
good gifts too
I'm destined get smarter every day I
guess smellier everyday in this video
have a good one all right we're gonna
see if you can keep up are you ready
here we go come on I think it's awesome
I think I'll do this yeah
yes so you was it fun yeah fun was it
interesting it was very interesting
there you go any closing thoughts or
maybe not pregnant I might as well
oh that's right I mean yeah that's
that's a fascist body we have more
variables isolate my three do this in
six months